Calhoun?
Well, I heard a lot of good things about Calhoun, but he was an engineer, so we didn't really interact very much.
But everything I heard about him was very good.
And I guess, you know, you can tell me about this, I guess.
He was supposed to be the next president, and they got Miller instead, who was a disaster.
Of all the presidents,
that you have observed in your Texas A&M years, to which ones would you give the highest marks?
Well, I don't think there's any doubt about what Rudder had the biggest influence on Texas A&M because of the Corps of Cadets and the women.
But I would just look around the campus and see the buildings.
A lot of them went up when Rudder was here.
He was remarkable from his background.
I guess it was the idea that in the Army, intelligence is important.
And he talked to the right people and listened to the right people.
And like I say, in Washington, that was one of the comments I heard about Miller.
People in Washington said, who's he?
Nobody.
Rudder wasn't a scientist or anything, but he was known in Washington.
Anybody else you'd give high marks to?
Well, I give Williams high marks for taking care of Suttle.
Also, there was a downside to Rudder.
As I said, intelligence was important, and I think he had his spies around the campus.
And somehow with Williams, some of that disappeared.
As far, I'll give you one example of the Christian organizations.
I was an advisor for InterVarsity Christian Fellowship, and Dean Hannigan was in charge of that kind of thing.
And under Rudder and Hannigan, everything was, nothing was in writing, everything was understanding.
Nobody could, nobody could ever find a paper trail.
And everything worked fine.
I mean, they had nothing against, but with Williams,
He said, well, I'm worried about conflict of church and state.
So I don't remember whether he told InterVarsity they couldn't meet or he said, I'm going to check with the attorney general and find out.
So he asked the attorney general if a group like InterVarsity could meet.
on the campus, and it wasn't just in the faith student center there, it was anywhere.
And the Attorney General came back with a very good statement, I thought, and he went back to the United States First Amendment.
He said there can be no discrimination against church and
If you have an airplane club or a chess club or whatever, well, you can't say there can't be a religious club.
And Williams respected that, and from then on there was no trouble.
So maybe that was just an indication of kind of getting things in a formal setting, whereas Rudder did things informally.
Well, I think he...
Well, maybe it was Andy Suttle who had the spies with the cyclotron.
I don't know, but I think there were people reporting to him.
You know, we'd say something at a faculty meeting, and I was told that the secretary there would then tell us.
We assumed it was all confidential, and the secretary would tell somebody everything that was said.
Well, I think under Williams, that was eliminated, that kind of thing.
During these...
now would be 39 years of observing A&M.
Do you think A&M has made real academic progress?
Is this a?
Oh, yeah.
No, I have no question about that.
And in physics, we're a major leaguer.
Yeah.
We're still not in the class with a football team, number 10 or anything.
But, yeah.
We've kind of tailed off because we had so many people who were hired at the same time, and now they're all 60 to 65, and now we're beginning to hire people again.
So I don't think there's been too much advance in the last 10 years.
We made a big jump when they had the super collider, and suddenly a lot of money came in, and we got some very good people.
But I don't see any reason why we shouldn't get some good people again.
As you look over these years,
Now, with the clarity of hindsight, are there some opportunities that A&M missed?
Are there some things that we could have done that we didn't?
No, I don't think of anything offhand.
I don't either.
I think it's a tough business.
It's like Slocum has his problems.
There's some good teams out there.
And it's tough to move up in the rankings.
I think we're doing the right things.
Well, these are things I don't know about.
I think they get quite a bit of money when they hire a new person, hundreds of thousands of dollars to set him up in a laboratory and so on.
And so as far as I know, I guess they'd like to have some more chairs.
They're talking about that.
I was over at the business school in Austin.
I don't know, 40 different chairs they have on the wall over there.
We don't have any chairs in physics.
I don't know how many they have over there in physics, probably not like that.
But anyway, that kind of thing I think we've kind of overlooked, because there are a lot of rich people, a lot of rich Aggies around.
In terms of support facilities, are technology on the campus is capable for a good physics department?
Yeah, I guess the main thing,
one would think about is the computer, and I'm not a theoretician, so I don't use the computer that much.
I've been surprised how good the library is here, and that's because of my interest in Adam and Eve and Calvin and so on.
And the other thing is, yeah, I should mention this.
This interlibrary loan is fantastic.
I've gotten books from 1893 out of Princeton in 1911, Princeton Theological Review, and here they are in a couple days.
So keep that going.
That's a wonderful facility we have.
All right, these next questions have to do, you are hereby appointed as an advisor, counselor, consultant.
What advice would you give to the physics department today about its future, to do or not to do, and or not to do?
Well, one thing they're talking about, I agree with very much, they're talking about an exploratorium.
I don't know whether you've heard about that or not.
They have an exploratorium in San Francisco that people from Berkeley started, and it's a,
wonderful place.
You go in and you can run all these machines and the laws of physics are all, you throw a ball up in the air and watch it come down and a whole lot of nice things.
And I remember going to one in Chicago when I was only 20 years old, and that's one reason I went to physics probably, just because it's such, well, physics is always good at these open houses and things.
You have people on rotating
stools and they put the dumbbells out and they slow down, they pull them in, they speed up.
Well, the Exploratorium would be like that.
Well, they're talking about having it over there next to McDonald's.
I guess there's a lot of little, except for the bank there, there's not much over there.
And they're trying to get some alumni to support that.
This would be an A&M facility.
It would be an A&M facility, yeah.
And it would just bring in all kinds of high school kids, of course.
All right, in terms of the academic part of the physics department, are there some things that we ought to do or not do?
We need to get good people and that's, you know, Marlon Scully is a famous guy and he's got very good people, people from Russia and Germany and all over the place.
And that's, to me, the key thing is getting people like that.
And that means money and, well, I guess you should talk to Marlon Scully.
He's given a lot more thought than I have.
Now, what's his task these days, Scully?
Well, I guess if you wanted to bring in a Marlon Scully, you'd want to say, well, there's a couple of appointments you can... No, but what does he do?
What is Scully's?
Oh, he's the first one from A&M that's been elected to the National Academy of Sciences.
And he's in quantum optics.
Here?
Here.
We have some famous people who did their work elsewhere, but he did it here.
And...
All right, what advice would you give then to the campus administrators about physics, science, and or anything else?
You're the consultant now about A&M's future.
Well, the key thing in physics is getting good people, and it may be you need more laboratory space.
We have quite a good machine shop.
If you get good people, they get money, and then they can hire machinists and so on.
So the key thing is getting those good people.
Well, what about for the whole institution?
That's what the Cyclotron did for us.
It allowed us to, because it had a first-class facility, we got first-class people to work there.
Well, what about for the whole institution?
For the university?
Well, I suppose it's the same in history as physics, isn't it?
Get good people.
But are there any things we need to add or close up?
I think being as big a university as it is, it's a pretty pleasant campus.
There's places to eat around the campus now.
There wasn't anything over, there's pi-r squares over there now.
So it's... Okay, now I've just about finished all the questions I had except two or three.
Are there some topics that we should have included that we haven't?
Anything you think of that we didn't mention?
No, you jogged my memory pretty well.
Okay, then one of the last questions.
To what individuals relative to this institution do you feel the most grateful?
Well, certainly Earl Rudder, and it was his vision that got the cyclotron here, and he carried it through and got the thing built.
in general, getting the girls in and getting the Corps voluntary, and those were wonderful things that he was able to do.
Others?
I think we're... To whom you feel grateful?
I don't interact with the dean in science very much anymore.
That's probably...
experience with deans is that any time you go over there, it's a problem.
So if I don't go over there, well, I think it's supposed to be going all right.
Well, the physics department, that's one reason Scully stays.
He says it's a very pleasant place.
People like each other.
And so, but I think everybody's kind of frustrated that we don't have a better department.
And the fact that so many people are retiring, this is the opportunity.
I think the dean has agreed to provide a considerable amount of money now so we can go out and get people.
Okay.
Then, next to last question.
Let's make believe that someone walks up to you and hands you a check for a million dollars.
with one condition, you must pass that on to Texas A&M.
In other words, if you could make a big, meaningful gift to Texas A&M, for what purpose would you want your gift used?
In other words, what would be your favorite A&M?
Well, I think endowing and sharing physics would be as good an idea as any.
Okay.
And in what specialty?
Or would you want to specify?
No, the department, I think, should decide.
We've got about four strong groups, and I guess with a million dollars, I don't know.
You might hire a professor that's in one of those strong groups that would be the new leader or something like that.
I think that department should decide.
All right.
Then the last question.
What feelings do you carry in your heart about Texas A&M?
How do you feel about Texas A&M now?
Well, it's kind of like a family.
I mean, I spend a lot of my life here.
I have good feelings about it.
I don't have any.
I mean, we had some big fights when Suttle was here and Squire was here, and they're all over there in the past now.
I'm not of administration, so maybe they're still going on, I don't know.
But it's an enjoyable department with very nice people.